FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS TO DEFENDANT GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

Definitions

1. The term "incident" refers to the electrocution event that occurred on July 24, 2019 at approximately 8:10PM at the residence located at 140 Crumley Street SE, Atlanta, GA which led to the deaths of Terrell Cheatham and Maurice Hankerson.

2. The term "incident circuit" refers to the electrical feeder which begins at the substation and distributes electrical power to the incident residence's electrical service.

3. The term "incident service drop" refers to the GP electric service cable and equipment that serves the residence home at 140 Crumley Street, Atlanta, GA.

4. The term "Pole 1" is the first Georgia Power wood pole, located due east of the residence at 140 Crumley Street, Atlanta Georgia. This is the pole where the transformer that serves the incident residence is installed. The residence's electrical service drop is attached midspan to the triplex secondary span of cable originating from this pole.

5. The term "electric supply line" (or simply "supply line" or "supply") refers to the NESC definition which states, "Those wires, conductors, and cables used to transmit electric or light energy and their necessary supporting or containing structures, equipment, and apparatus that are used to provide public or private electric supply or lighting service."  In this case, GP is the owner and operator of the electric supply lines.

6. The term "communication line" refers to the telecommunication line, conductor, cable and equipment located in the communication space. The term is further defined in the NESC.

7. The term "IEEE" refers to the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.

8. The term "NESC" refers to the National Electrical Safety Code, IEEE Standard C2.

9. The terms "Georgia Power" or "GP" refer to the Georgia Power Company.

10. The term "PSC" refers to the Public Service Commission.

Interrogatories

25. Identify the GP circuit on which the incident occurred, including the GP designation of the circuit/feeder, the circuit number & substation name (from which the circuit line/feeder originates), and any other identifying data.

26. Identify the system line voltage, phase-to-phase, and phase-to-ground voltage and configuration of the incident circuit (e.g. wye, grounded Y, delta, ungrounded, etc.)

27. State whether or not the incident circuit is "effectively grounded" (as per NESC).

28. Provide the original date of installation by year of the incident circuit.

29. Identify by year the edition of the IEEE Standard C2 entitled "National Electrical Safety Code" (NESC) to which the incident pole line was designed and constructed and which governs the electric supply lines installations and clearances for the incident pole line, and to which the supply lines and equipment are maintained.

30. State the edition by year of the IEEE Standard C2 entitled "National Electrical Safety Code" (NESC) to which GP currently adheres for new overhead line construction (Part 2 of NESC).

31. State whether any existing primary and/or secondary fusing, internal or external to the service transformer, or any other fusing, or any existing primary and/or secondary circuit breaker, recloser or sectionalizer operated to clear the secondary fault that occurred during the incident.  If in the affirmative and the device was a fuce, please identify the location of the fuse, the fuse type, size, speed, manufacturer, and manufacturer's model/catalog number. If in the affirmative and teh device was not a fuse, please identify the device, the device location, current setting/coil size, manufacturer, and manufacturer's model/catalog number.

32. State whether there was a power outage or any interruption in service to any residence on the incident circuit due to the incident?  If so, identify the nature and cause of the interruption (e.g. outage due to secondary fault, outage due to repair or fuse replacement, etc.) and identify the number of customers served effected that were out of power and the time duration of the service interruption.

33. State the voltage of the GP electrical service supplying the incident house and the date of installation.

34. State whether the electrical service drop at the incident residence was removed or repaired after the incident occurred. If in the affirmative, please describe the work done and identify the date of removal or repair and identify the personnel who performed the work. Please also state if whether the electrical service drop equipment (cable, connectors, covers, mounting equipment) was preserved, and state the present location (by facility and address) where the evidence has been preserved and is available for inspection by Plaintiff.

35. State whether the condition of the uncovered and bare portion of the energized conductor(s) of the incident service drop complies with, or violates, any GP engineering design, specifications, and/or the construction standards, required by GP for installation and operation. If in the affirmative, please identify the GP engineering, construction, and operation standards and specifications that were violated. If in the negative, please state why the uncovered conductor condition does not violate GP standards and specifications.

36. State whether the condition of the uncovered and bare portion of the energized conductor(s) of the incident service drop complies with, or violates, the requirements of the NESC for insulated services. If in violation of the NESC, please identify the NESC rule violated by the uncovered conductor(s). If in compliance with the NESC, please state why the uncovered conductor(s) condition does not violate NESC requirement.

37. State whether the condition of the uncovered and bare portion of the energized conductor(s) of the incident service drop is or was a dangerous electrical condition to the public.

38. State whether human contact with an electrical service conductor, energized at 120/240 volts, has the potential and/or possibility to electrocute the person making the contact with the energized conductor.

39. For the electric service drop conductors (triplex cable consisting of 2 insulated "hot legs" and neutral) that serves the incident residence, provide the following:
    a. the GP Standard Material Catalog/Stock Number (or equivalent internal stock material identification);
    b. the GP Standard Material Catalog item description;
    c. the size and types of conductors, and material (e.g. CU, AL, etc.);
    d. the type of insulation (e.g. XLP) and the insulation thickness as specified by GP;
    e. the approved equipment manufacturer(s) of the service cable;
    f. manufacturer's catalog/model number;
    g. any identifying printing on the cable.

40. For the electric service drop conductors (triplex cable consisting of 2 insulated "hot legs" and neutral) that serves the incident residence, please identify, by the Georgia Power name and/or designation, the internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s), the GP "Engineering Specifications" or internal corporate equivalent (used for corporate purchasing of the equipment and material) which specifies the triplex service drop cable used by GP.

41. State the failure mode and cause of the defect of the incident electric service drop which brought about (prompted) the uncovered/bare condition of the hot leg of the service drop involved in the electrocution.

42. State the length of time (duration) that the insulation of the incident's service drop's conductor was defective and missing.

43. State if the incident residence's electric meter is still read by a meter reader who is physically at the meter location. If in the negative, please state the date that the practice of meter reading by an on-site employee meter reader was terminated. If in the affirmative, please state the frequency (number of times in a given time period) with which the meter is read by the meter reader while physically on-site at the meter location.

44. State whether GP utilizes independent contractors to install or maintain or inspect or repair electrical services. If in the affirmative, please identify the contractors and the document that outlines and describes the duties and services the contractor is expected to perform and provide to GP.

45. For any maintenance performed on the GP distribution system, state whether GP utilizes any of the following Maintenance Technologies (methodologies): Preventive Maintenance? Predictive Maintenance? Reliability-Centered Maintenance? Condition Based Maintenance?  If response is in the affirmative, identify which Maintenance Technology is utilized and identify, by the GP name, title, and/or designation, the internal GP corporate program(s) and manual(s), and other documentation outlining GP's use of the maintenance technology and methodology.

46. Identify by Name, Title, Department, and Job Responsibility, the system Distribution Engineering Department personnel (or internal corporate equivalent departments) which is responsible for creating the Distribution construction standards, safety standards, material specifications, engineering policies, approving equipment application and manufacturers, interpreting the NESC for distribution, and has final corporate authority and responsibility for the engineering design of the distribution system.

47. Please identify by Name, Title, Department, and Job Responsibility, the system Distribution Operation & Maintenance Department personnel (or internal corporate equivalent departments) which is responsible for the methods of construction, maintenance, and operation of the distribution system, and has final corporate authority and responsibility for the approval of standard methods of practice in these areas.

48. Please identify by Name, Title, Department, and Job Responsibility, the complete Division & District management personnel. This should be limited only to those Districts and Divisions with the designated corporate jurisdiction for the incident circuits and pole lines. A full list of all managers, directors, and supervisors should be submitted.

49. Identify the case number, the court, the counties and dates filed for any and all civil law suits against Georgia Power, its management or its employees regarding claims similar to this one, where physical contact was made with a residential electrical service on the GP system, within the past 10 years.

50. State whether the present location of the current electric meter is the same as when the meter was originally installed?


Requests to Produce

20. Produce the Georgia Power manual that contains drawings of overhead distribution facilities and installations, and outlines and depicts the approved, standard equipment and pole framing construction, and installation details and information (such as mounting heights), used by the utility for the design and construction of the distribution system. [Note: At other utilities, one such manual as this is sometimes referred to as the "Distribution Construction Standards" manual. It is normally issued to all linemen and engineers so that the distribution system can be designed and built in accordance with the company standards and the NESC. This interrogatory requests that the equivalent internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) be identified.]

21. Produce the Georgia Power manual(s) which outlines, describes, and lists (normally by using a Georgia Power catalog number and description) the standard and approved distribution equipment used on the Georgia Power distribution system, and is normally used for corporate purchasing functions and inventory control. [Note: At other utilities, one such manual as this is sometimes referred to as the "Standard Material Catalog" manual. This interrogatory requests that the equivalent internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) be identified.]

22. Produce the Georgia Power engineering reference manual(s) that is used by utility engineers to design the distribution system and provides engineering guidance and calculation procedures for various aspects of design. [Note: At other utilities, one such manual as this is sometimes referred to as the "Distribution Engineering Manual" or the "Distribution Engineering Reference Manual."  This interrogatory requests that the equivalent internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) be identified.]

23. Produce the internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s), that contains the "engineering specifications" used by Georgia Power to specify distribution products and to make purchases. [Note: Utility engineers normally write specifications for certain products used on the distribution system. The Purchasing Department will normally use these specifications to send to vendors so that the proper equipment is correctly fabricated and supplied to the utility.] 

24. Produce the internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) that outlines and delineates the policies and procedures for issuing "work orders" for constructing, inspecting, maintaining, and performing work on the Georgia Power distribution system, as well as any other document that identifies the computur program utilized for issuing and tracking work orders. [Note: Utilities use computer programs to issue work orders that direct utility employees and contractors to perform inspections, maintenance, and construction work on the distribution system, pole lines, and equipment. This interrogatory requests that the equivalent internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) and computer program/database be identified.]

25. Produce the internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) and the computer program(s)/database(s) manuals, that outline and delineate the policies and procedures to plan, manage, perform and track inspections of the equipment on the Georgia Power distribution system and on residential electrical services.

26. Produce the internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) and the computer program(s)/database(s) manuals, that outline and delineate the policies and procedures to plan, manage, perform and track distribution maintenance work on the Georgia Power distribution system and residential electrical services. This interrogatory requests that the equivalent internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) be identified.

27. Produce the document on file with the Georgia Public Service Commission that outlines the terms and conditions of providing electric service to residences on the GP system, that is currently in effect, as well as the equivalent document in effect at the time of the incident. This document is sometimes referred to, in various states, as the "Tariff" or as the "Rules, Regulations, and Rate Schedules for Electric Service" or as the "Tariff for Retail Delivery Service," etc.

28. Produce the internal Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) which describes the Georgia Power Electric Service Requirements. This manual is believed to be referred to as the GP "Blue Book" for Electrical Service. This book is normally used by contractors for the installation of customer services and may also be used by GP personnel.

29. Produce any documents that record, reflect, or memorialize the dates upon which the above polices and/or procedures took effect.

30. Produce any documents that record, reflect, or memorialize:
    a. The date of installation of Pole 1 (the transformer pole described under Definitions) and the date of installation of the transformer on Pole 1 (that provides service to the incident house).
    b. Whether the electrical service drop at the incident residence has ever been replaced, repaired, upgraded, or maintained, the date when such work was performed and the identity of the personnel who performed the work.
    c. Any physical inspection of the electric service drop at the incident residence.
    d. Any and all service calls and/or trouble calls made onsite (physically) to the incident residence, the purpose of the call, when the service or trouble call occurred, and the personnel who performed the work or visited the residence. 
    e. All work orders that have been issued for any work performed on the GP electrical service to the incident residence, or any portion thereof, for the past 10 years.

31. Provide a copy of all GP Construction Standards from the "Distribution Construction Standards" manual (or the equivalent GP manual) that outlines and specifies the design of electrical services for residential construction.

32. Provide a copy of all relevant GP construction standards from the "Distribution Construction Standards" (or the equivalent GP manual) that covers the incident service and electric service drop conductors (triplex cable consisting of 2 insulated "hot legs" and neutral) that serve the incident residence.

33. Provide a copy of the pages of all relevant engineering references from the "Distribution Engineering Manual" (or the equivalent GP document), that covers the design of the incident service and the electric service drop conductors (triplex cable consisting of 2 insulated "hot legs" and neutral) that serves the incident residence.

34. Provide all GP service requests, work orders, bill of materials, construction sketches and diagrams used and/or created for the original installation of the GP electric service and service drop serving the incident house.

35. Provide all GP work orders, repair orders, service calls, trouble call reports, inventory material requests, bill of materials, repair instructions, dispatching orders, switching orders, and any other reports and documentation that were issued, noted, recorded, etc. concerning the incident and the repair work to restore the incident service and service drop to full compliance after the incident.

36. Provide all GP work orders, repair orders, service calls, trouble call reports, inventory material requests, bill of materials, repair instructions, dispatching orders, switching orders, and any other reports and documentation that were issued, noted or recorded within the past 10 years, to repair, replace, maintain, or perform any construction on the incident service and service drop serving the incident house.
 
37. Provide all GP work orders, repair orders, service calls, trouble call reports, inventory material requests, bill of materials, repair instructions, dispatching orders, switching orders, and any other reports and documentation that were issued, noted or recorded within the past 10 years, to repair, replace, maintain, or perform any construction on Pole 1 (the transformer pole).

38. Provide all GP outage reports, service interruption reports and all other reports used for service reliability that were created and/or generated due to the service fault that occurred for the incident.

39. Provide a copy of all relevant pages from the GP "Standard Material Catalog" (or the equivalent GP document) that covers the electric service drop conductors (triplex cable consisting of 2 insulated "hot legs" and neutral) that serves the incident residence.

40.Provide a copy of all relevant pages from the GP "Engineering Specifications" (or the equivalent GP document) used to specify and purchase the incident residential service cable.
 
41. Provide a copy of all GP Corporate Policies & Procedures that describe, outline and document any and all general inspection programs for distribution system and pole lines.

42. Provide a copy of all GP Corporate Policies & Procedures that describe, outline and document any and all inspection programs specifically for electric services and service drop conductors/cables.

43. Provide a copy of all GP Corporate Policies & Procedures that describe, outline and document any and all general maintenance programs for distribution system and pole lines.

44. Provide a copy of all GP Corporate Policies & Procedures that describe, outline and document any and all maintenance programs specifically for electric services and service drop conductors/cables.

45. For each independent contractor that provides any distribution system inspection of or maintenance on residential electric services on the GP system, provide the contract with terms, conditions and scope of work under which the contractor is expected to perform inspections and maintenance for GP.

46. Provide a copy of all UPR's ("Unsatisfactory Performance Reports") or the equivalent internal GP corporate system, used by utility personnel, for the reporting and documentation of defective or failed distribution equipment, concerning all failed or defective service drop cable/conductors, that has occurred on the GP distribution system. [Note: The UPR is the report form used by field personnel (usually linemen) at various utilities, to report the failure, malfunction, or poor performance of distribution equipment and tools.]

47. Provide a copy of the Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) that outlines meter reading operations and procedures, that are used by utility personnel to physically read a residential meter (on-site).

48. Provide a copy of the approved "Tariff" or "Rules, Regulations, and Rate Schedules for Electric Service" (or Georgia PSC equivalent) filed with the Georgia PSC, that is presently in effect. [Note: The Rules, Regulations, and Rate Schedules for Electric Service is a document which outlines the requirements and responsibilities and payment rates of the utility to provide electrical service within Georgia Power's service territory.]

49. Provide a copy of the approved "Tariff" or "Rules, Regulations, and Rate Schedules for Electric Service" (or Georgia PSC equivalent) filed with the Georgia PSC, that was in effect at the time of the incident. [Note: The Rules, Regulations, and Rate Schedules for Electric Service is a document which outlines the requirements and responsibilities and payment rates of the utility to provide electrical service within Georgia Power's service territory.]

50. Provide a copy of the GP "Electric Service Requirements" or internal corporate equivalent, that was in effect at the time of the original installation of the incident electrical service, which outlines the rules, designs and standards covering metering and service installations. [Note: This document is made available to and is utilized by builders and contractors to install customer services in accordance with Georgia Power requirements. It is believed to be referred to as the GP "Blue Book" for Electrical Service.]

51. Provide a copy of the GP "Electric Service Requirements" or internal corporate equivalent, that was in effect at the time of the incident, which outlines the rules, designs and standards covering metering and service installations. [Note: This document is made available to and is utilized by builders and contractors to install customer services in accordance with Georgia Power requirements. It is believed to be referred to as the GP "Blue Book" for Electrical Service.]

52. Provide a copy of the utility Franchise Agreement between GP and the city and/or county in which the incident house is located. [Note: A Franchise Agreement between a utility and a Municipality or County, is entered into, so that the utility may be authorized to provide service and install equipment to the population of the locale.]  It is believed that there may be two Franchise Agreements; one for the county of the incident residence (believed to be Fulton County) and one for the City of Atlanta.

53. Provide all accident reports, investigation reports or any other documentation written or created by Georgia Power personnel concerning the incident.

54. Provide all accident reports, investigation reports or any other documentation, concerning the incident, written or created by any entity other than Georgia Power personnel, but is in the possession of Georgia Power.

55. Provide all photos taken by GP personnel that depict the electric service, including the electric service drop cable, of the incident residence. 

56. Provide all accident reports, investigation reports or any other documentation concerning the incident which was sent by Georgia Power to the Georgia PSC.

57. Provide all Georgia Power reports sent to the Georgia PSC for any and all incidents involving the electrocution of or electric shocking of any person(s) involving Georgia Power distribution facilities, including residential electric service equipment.

58. Provide all Georgia Power recorded audio and written radio/communication transcripts of all utility radio transmissions and communications that were made by Georgia Power personnel (e.g. linemen, dispatchers, supervisors, etc.) that communicated any information concerning the incident. Include all switching orders for the substation & circuit involved in the incident. [Note: Many power companies have tape recordings of the radio talk between their line / office employees. Transcripts of these recordings should be possible to obtain.]

59. Provide a copy of all orders issued by the Georgia PSC directing GP to perform any inspections on the GP distribution system.

60. Provide a copy of all orders issued by the Georgia PSC directing GP to perform any maintenance on the GP distribution system.

61. Provide a copy of all orders issued by the Georgia PSC directing GP to perform any inspections of any residential service equipment including service drops, service conductors, service entrance connectors or service hardware.

62. Provide a copy of all orders issued by the Georgia PSC directing GP to perform any maintenance on or replacement of any residential service equipment including service drops, service conductors, service entrance connectors or service hardware.

63. Provide all orders issued by the Georgia PSC directing GP to perform any inspections or maintenance on any aging distribution equipment, including residential electric services, service drops, and service cable.
This completes the first set of Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents regarding this case. 

64. Produce documents that record, reflect, or memorialize the installation, replacement, shut off, removal, relocation, or testing of the electric meter at the incident residence, including, without limitation, the personnel who performed the work, and including, without limitation, any installation of a "Smart Meter," as well as any meter reading visitations during the past five years.

65. Produce the Georgia Power corporate policy and procedure manual(s) that outlines inspections by meter readers and meter reader operations and procudures.

66. Produce the internal GP corporate policy and procedure manual(s) that outlines and delineates the policies and procedures to follow for performing inspections on the GP distribution system, pole lines, equipment, and residential services, including, without limitation, any policy manuals relating to computer systems used to schedule and track inspection.

67. Produce the internal GP corporate policy and procedure manual, that outlines and delineates the policies and procedures to follow for performing maintenance on the GP distribution system, pole lines, equipment, and residential services, including, without limitation, any policy manuals relating to computer systems used to schedule and track maintenance.

68. Produce the internal GP corporate program(s) and manual(s), and other documentation outlining GP's use of any Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) for distribution system maintenance.

69. Produce documents that record, reflect, or memorialize any program or replacement policy for aging distribution equipment.

70. Produce the corporate policy and procedure manual(s), as well as other related documents, regarding the database and/or computer program(s) used by GP utility personnel to track failures of GP distribution system equipment and/or defects and for the reporting, and documentation of defective or failed distribution equipment, including failed/defective residential service equipment. [Note: At other utilities, this manual or program is sometimes referred to as the "Unsatisfactory Performance Report" (UPR) system. The "UPR" or GP corporate equivalent, is the report form used by field personnel (usually linemen) to report and document the failure, malfunction, or poor performance of distribution equipment and tools. Utilities normally maintain a database, computer program, and/or records, of the failures of distribution equipment for tracking and trending failure rates of installed equipment. It is also used normally to track failures that may be developing into system-wide problems.]

71. Produce the internal GP corporate policy and procedure manual and documents relating to the computer program/database that outlines and delineates the policies and procedures for identifying and tracking "power outages" on the GP distribution system. [Note: Utilities use computer programs, sometimes referred to as the "Outage Management System" (or OMS) to monitor and track power outages on the distribution system. This system is also sometimes used to issue work orders for repairs and to re-energize circuits.]

Produce any Georgia PSC's order(s) and documents that mandate or require inspections and/or maintenance of distribution equipment on the GP system.

Produce any Georgia PSC's order(s) and documents that mandate or require inspections and/or maintenance of residential electric services on the GP system.


