# Baldwin Paving

This is the deposition of the corporate representative of Baldwin Paving, Inc., taken under the Georgia Civil Practice Act for all allowable purposes including discovery, cross-examination, and use at trial. The parties have stipulated to reservation of objections except for form and responsiveness, as well as remote administration of the oath. Any objections or statements by counsel for the record.

Please swear the witness.

Good morning sir, my name is Paul Menair, I believe we've met. I have a few questions for you in your capacity as a corporate representative, and what that means is this time I am going to be asking questions and expecting responses on behalf of the corporation, not you individually. Do you understand that distinction?

I am not here to duplicate effort, hopefully I can avoid that as much as possible and get this over quickly so we can all get on with our day, but please feel free to ask for a break if you need one, just answer my question before we go on mute, okay?

I'm showing you what's marked as Exhibit 1

This is the notice of today's deposition and it has two important parts.

First is a list of topics.

Are you prepared to testify on these topics today?

Are you the right person for me to talk to about these topics?

Are you authorize to give me testimony under oath on these topics?

What documents if any did you review to prepare for today?

The second part of this is a list of documents.

Did you make a reasonable effort to find any responsive documents and get the to me for today's deposition?

What did that reasonable effort consist of?

What are you producing today?

Are there responsive documents you are aware of that you aren't able to produce today?

Let's go through these document requests one at a time and talk about what might exist.

I'm going to show what we'll mark as Exhibit 2 to this deposition.

This is a document titled "Master Subcontract Agreement," yes?

Can you tell me what this is?

Is this a true and correct copy of a contract entered into between Vertical Earth Inc. and Baldwing Paving Co on or about June 20, 2021?

Is this the relevant document to look at relating to the subcontracting arrangment that led to the lane closure that brings us here today?

Is the proper name of Baldwin Baldwin Paving Inc or Baldwin Paving Co?  Are there two entities or just one?

Who is Elliott Batts?

Who does he report to?

Did he have authority to enter into this agreement on behalf of the company in his capacity as Vice President?

What is your relationship  to Mr. Batts?

Who is Kevin Bonilla?

This was produced to us by Vertical Earth, but not by Baldwin. Do you guys not have a copy of this agreement?

On the first page, which is actually bates numbered 3, there's a reference to an Exhibit which is not attached. Do you know whether there is any copy of this agreement with an attached exhibit?

Are there any other documents that might constitute an agreement relating to the work that resulted in our lane closure?

Any exhibits or schedules to this agreement that you're aware of, at all?

Work Orders?

--> [ ] work orders will be produced

This document was prepared by Vertical Earth, correct?

Was the language negotiated in any way? Were there any drafts of the agreement?

Are there plans and specifications for the actual lane closure? Can I have them?

email correspondence relating to the lane closure?

There is both an indemnification provision and an insurance provision, correct?

In fact, two indemnification provisions?

Let's talk about the section titled Safety, in section 12 on the page bates numbered 6

My understanding is that this accident happened while a Baldwin employee was pulling out of a lane closure into traffic, fair?

Would you say that was a "project site"?

So Baldwin Paving was, under this agreement, responsible for safety at this location?

[ ] MUTC traffic control

And as subcontract Baldwin Paving was responsible to quote "comply with all federal, state, labor and local laws, regulations and codes concerning safety as shall be applicable to the work and to safety standards established by Contractor during the progress of the work."

What safety standards, if any, were established by the Contractor applicable to traffic in and out of the lane closure at this location?

What federal or state laws or regulations are relevant?

Are there regulations regarding spacing of the markers or barrels that set off the lane closure?

Regulations about how to enter or exit a lane closure?

Do you have to submit plans to DOT?

Does VE?

Does the lane closure get inspected by DOT?

By VE?

By anyone?

This says that the subcontractor, that's Baldwin, has to maintain a Safety Plan.

Did you?

Does it say anything relevant to lane closures, traffic accident prevention?

You'll agree with me that there is a potential safety concern when you have drivers entering and leaving a work site adjacent to an active highway, correct?

What does Baldwin do to respond to that concern?

What is a reasonable standard of care when exiting a lane closure into an open lane of travel on a highway?

Do you believe Mr. Nelson conformed to that standard of care?

Is there anything to be done to anticipate and adjust the geometry of the actual lane closure to help prevent these problems?

Was it done?

Do you have a copy of Vertical Earth's safety plan from this period? Did you? Do you think one exists?

Any plans or diagrams of the lane closure?

I'll represent that the police report estimates the time of this crash as 6:08 on Jan 31, 2022.

Ex 3

Ex 4 looks like these folks came on shift at 7a, do we know if anyone was there at the time of the collision? Do we know what Nelson was doing? How would we piece that back together?

Ex 5 authenticate

PRIOR INCIDENTS LIST

818 9322 8787                                            
730244k


---

unusaul for subK agreement to ask for a safety plan?
sop not to have a separate safety plan? industry standard
did ve ever ask for a copy of a safety plan

who have you consulted with about safety planning

B2W
officers talked to one other person



