IN THE SUPERIOR COURT OF MERIWETHER COUNTY
STATE OF GEORGIA

NORQUESHIA JANE DOMENICK,
individually and as parent
and natural guardian of
MERSAIDES MARIE JEAN, a
minor,

Plaintiff,

v.

VITA BERNICE SEWELL,

Defendant.

JURY TRIAL DEMANDED

COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the above Plaintiff ("Plaintiff" or "Domenick") and files her Complaint, showing the following:

Jurisdiction and Venue

1. Plaintiff is a citizen of the State of California, submitting herself hereby to the jurisdiction and venue of this Court.

2. Defendant Vita Bernice Sewell ("Defendant" or "Sewell") is a citizen of Meriwether County, Georgia, and she may be served with summons and complaint in this matter at 126 Freeman Court, Grantville, Meriwether County, Georgia 30220.

3. This Honorable Court has subject matter jurisdiction of this action for monetary damages arising from a traffic collision, and venue is proper in Meriwether County pursuant to Georgia Const. Art. VI, Sec. II, Para. VI.

Facts Common to All Counts

4. On January 17, 2019, Domineck was operating a motor vehicle on S. Hwy 29 in Coweta County, Georgia.

5. Sewell was operating a motor vehicle behind Domineck in the same direction of travel and too fast for conditions.

6. When Domineck stopped to turn left, Sewell struck Domineck's vehicle from behind.

7. Jean Mersaides, a minor, was a passenger in Domineck's motor vehicle.

8. As a direct and proximate consequence of the collision, Mersaides Marie Jean ("Jean") suffered personal injuries including, without limitation neck and back pain, concussion, headaches, traumatic brain injury, and post-traumatic stress syndrome.

9. The responding officer issued Sewell a citation for violation of OCGA 40-6-180, Too Fast for Conditions.

Count I - Negligence

10. Sewell had a duty of care in the operation of his motor vehcile on January 17, 2019.

11. Sewell's conduct in, without limitation, operating a motor vehicle too fast for conditions and without due regard for other motorists, breached said duty of care and constituted negligence.

12. As a direct and proximate consequence of Sewell's negligence, Jean Mersaides incurred medical expenses in the amount of at least $27,016.72, which continue to accrue, as well pain, suffering, and emotional distress.

13. Plaintiff is entitled to an award of special and general damages, individually and on behalf of Jean Mersaides as her parent and natural guardian.

COUNT II - Negligence Per Se

14. Sewell had a duty to obey Georgia law in the operation of his motor vehicle on January 17, 2019.

15. Sewell's conduct in, without limitation, operating a motor vehicle too fast for conditions and without due regard for other motorists, breached said duty of care and constituted negligence per se.

16. As a direct and proximate consequence of Sewell's negligence, Jean Mersaides incurred medical expenses in the amount of at least $27,016.72, which continue to accrue, as well pain, suffering, and emotional distress.

17. Plaintiff is entitled to an award of special and general damages, individually and on behalf of Jean Mersaides as her parent and natural guardian.

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully prays that summons issue and be served with the foregoing complaint on the above Defendant, that six months of discovery be had, that the matter be tried to a jury, that judgment be entered in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant, that the costs of this action be cast upon Defendant, and that the Court grant such other and further relief as it deems proper and just.

253-62-XXXX

DOB 02/16/1940