This is the deposition of XXX, as corporate representative of Walmart Stores East, LP, taken pursuant to notice and agreement of counsel under the federal rules of civil procedure for all purposes including discovery, cross-examination, and use at trial consistent with those rules. Under the federal rules and by stipulation of the parties, objections will be reserved until the first lawful use of the transcript of these proceedings, except as to privilege, form of the question, and responsiveness of the answer. We have also agreed to take this deposition by videoconference, with the officer administering the oath in a different physical location than the witness. Is all that agreeable, and do you want to make a record regarding signature?

Natalie Hanes

Please swear in the witness.

Good morning, XX, my name is Paul Menair and I represent Ginger Peterson in a lawsuit against Walmart Stores East, LP and some other entities arising from a slip and fall incident at a Walmart store. If I say "Walmart" today, I will most likely be refering to either the physical location where my client fell or to Walmart Stores East, LP, or both, but if there is any confusion please ask me to clarify, okay?

And you understand that you are here as the designated corporate representative of Walmart Stores East, LP, correct?

And that means you will be testifying on behalf of the company today, correct?

I may ask you questions about you personally, and I will try to make it clear when I am asking you to speak on behalf of yourself as opposed to the company. For example, in the beginning I will be asking some questions about who you are and what you do for Walmart. But if there is any confusion here, again, feel free to ask me to clarify a question. I know your attorney will help us get a clean transcript as well.

Could you please state and spell your full name for the record.

What is your position with Walmart?

What company name is on your paycheck, is it Walmart Stores East, LP?

Who do you report to? Title?

How many direct reports do you have? What are their names?

Tell me a little bit about how you came to work for Walmart, and how you got to be where you are today with the company?

I know you probably met with counsel to prepare for today's deposition, and I don't want to know anything that was said in that meeting, but I do want to know if you reviewed any documents, either in that meeting or in general, to prepare for today?

Ex 1

Did you meet with anyone other than counsel to get ready for today's deposition?

Let's start with my client's fall. How, personally, did you come to learn about my client's fall?

Who have you talked to about the fall?

We'll come back to this in detail later, but what is your understanding of what happened?

Let's talk about Walmart. There is an affirmative defense in Walmart's answer that Walmart, Inc. and Wal-Mart Real Estate Business Trust are not proper parties to this lawsuit. What is the relationship between Walmart Stores East, LP and those other two entities?

Do either of those entities have anything to do with the day to day operation of the store where my client fell?

Do you personally ever interact with people who work for those companies? How?

There were interrogatory responses filed on behalf of all three entities. Were you involved in preparing those responses? Who else was? Did you review them for today?

Who is Rebecca Hix (People Greeter). What does she know that is relevant to my client's fall? How do you know? Have you spoken with her. What is her job at Walmart? What are her job duties relating to falls and the prevention of falls? Did she perform those duties properly?

Sonya Brumbelow (Customer Service Manager), same questions,

Melissa Lagoo (Associate), same questions.

Kelley Flint (Assistant Manager), same questions. 

Dustin Ingram (Subway Employee), not a Walmart employee, correct? How was he identified as a witness?

I understand that there was an internal investigation by Walmart Claims Services, conducted via telephone, and I don't want to know the details of what happened with the investigation of this incident after it got to risk management. But can you please tell me what triggers that notification, and how it generally works?

The interrogatory responses that Walmart provided suggest that Kelley Flint would have been the one who interviewed the witnesses and performed the sort of on the ground initial investigation, is that correct?

Y'all are having trouble locating her? What can you tell me about her LKA? Former employee?

We asked about statements and there was a response over objection that identified and provided statements. Do you know whether any statements were withheld pursuant to objection?

The interrogatory responses say that Walmart is "essentially self-insured," which I take to mean that it is self-insured for purposes of this litigation but there may be an excess policy that Walmart contends is not relevant. Is that a fair summary?

The dec page that was produced shows 1MM in general liability coverage per occurance, with no medical expense coverage, correct?

Let's get to some more detail about accident prevention. We asked about cleaning and inspection and the response was, I'm, quoting "all Walmart associates have job duties that include inspecting, cleaning, and maintaining their respective work areas, and watching for potential hazards as they move throughout the subject premises. Walmart does not maintain records concerning the performance of these usual daily activities."

So Walmart does not use any third party vendors for routine cleaning of floors or daily inspection and maintenance, correct?

And I take this to mean that there are policies all employees are subject to that require them to be on the look out for slip hazards, fair?

Tell me about those policies.

Are there employees specifically assigned to floor cleaning?

How often are the floors cleaned, setting aside spills. Cleaning the whole floor?

How is that conducted?

What happens when a spill is identified?

Was any spill or substance identified on the floor after my client fell?

Have you viewed the videotape of the fall?

It looks to me like she slipped, as opposed to tripping over herself. Does it look that way to you?

What investigation was conducted regarding the condition of the floor? Would have been conducted?

Was cleaning conducted?

Was there any warning to Wal-Mart prior to my client's fall of the condition, whatever it was, that caused her fall? When?

So the fall was Wal-Mart's first indication that there might be a problem?

Does Wal-Mart know of anything that should have put my client on notice that there was a hazard she might slip on?

The interrogatory responses state that Wal-Mart Stores East, LP was the "owner and operator" of Store #7185, is that correct?

Who owned the actual real estate, by deed, do you know?

Is there an actual lease or rental agreement?

Okay, I'm going to talk about some things that were recently produced to us marked as confidential, I'm not going to include them as exhibits and I'm only going to talk about them in general terms, but I wanted to note that in case counsel wants to make this next portion a confidential annex to the deposition.

I'll state for the record that there was a list of slip/fall incidents at Store #7185 that shows three incidents over a two year period, including my client's fall. Do you know about any other slip and fall incidents at that store?

How common is it for folks to fall in that store? In Wal-Mart stores in general?

There was no wet floor sign that day, correct? Or any other specific indications of a hazard in that area?

Is there general signage at Wal-mart stores telling people to be careful how they walk, or where they walk?

The area where my client fell was an area where she was permitted to be, correct?

What does "SAFE" stand for? Tell me about that safety program?

Who receives the monthly "topic" publications regarding the SAFE program?

Tell me about the "Safety Sweep" page. How often?

Any way to know whether any safety sweeps happened the day of my client's fall, and when?

Who is on the "Clean Team"

How is the Strategic Maintenance Plan documented for a store? Who creates it? Maintains it? Ensures it's followed?

Documents you produced suggest that the SMP should include "frequent sweeps in high traffic areas"?

The area where my client fell was a high traffic area, correct?

What does frequent mean?

Any way to know how often those sweeps happened on the day of my client's fall?

Any idea what my client fell on? Was an inspection conducted to try and determine?

Was the area where my client fell slip resistant? Same as in the deli area? Why not?

Tile floor?

What is the Towel in Pocket program?

Okay, I think I'm done talking about the confidential production.

Are there any people we haven't talked about who might have direct knowledge relevant to this case, witnesses or people who interacted with my client or the floor she fell on?

Where are the various documents we've talked about maintained? Claims management? Do they also have the video of the fall? Asset protection office.
Asset protection manager. Brandon Enclsey

Authenticate witness statements. Is this a complete and accurate copy of a record maintained by Wal-Mart Stores, LP as part of its regular business? Was it made in the ordinary course and regular practice of Wal-Mart's business? Was it created close in time to the incident when my client fell? And you are not aware of any other statements relevant to this case?

Authenticate photos. Who took them?

---

procedures ensure

Safety sweep Radio v. intercom

do you have any criticisms of the way that any of the employees responded to my client's fall?

---

GINGER PETERSON

Sonya Brumbelow

Let's talk about your statement.

Is that your handwriting?

Is that your signature?

Is this an accurate copy of the statement you made on December 29, 2018?

Is it complete? Were there any other documents you generated?

Are you currently employed by Wal-Mart?

In December of 2018, what was your job title?

This is about a fall, correct?

Were there any other falls that day?

Describe the person who fell.

It says that you were informed about the fall by a cashier, is that correct?

Why did the cashier go to you? Who was the cashier?

What were your responsibilities in case of a fall?

Where were you in front of the Subway? Was the fall visible to anyone inside the sandwich shop?

Did you get the names of the two gentlemen who were picking her up?

Were you supposed to?

She told you that her hip was hurting, correct?

Your statement also says you saw no physical signs of injury, correct?

Was she able to stand?

Did it look like she was in pain? Was she favoring her hip? Was she able to walk?

You called 911? Do you know if anyone else did?

Did you stay there while 911 worked on her?

What did they do?

How often, in your work experience with Walmart, has emergency services come inside the store.

Did you look to see if you could find what this person fell on?

Do you know how she fell? Did you ask her? Did you ask anyone else?

Walmart policy requires you to be on the lookout for slip hazards, correct? Tell me about that.

Do you know who took these photographs?

Is there anything visible in these photographs that might help explain the fall?

Did you do any other investigation?

Was anyone with you while you prepared this statement?

Where did you get the form?

What does WITS stand for?

What are the names of any other people who might know something about this fall, employees of Walmart or otherwise.

Do you know who took my client's statement?

Who have you talked to about the fall, other than counsel or claims management.

Who is Rebecca Hix (People Greeter). What does she know that is relevant to my client's fall? How do you know? Have you spoken with her. What is her job at Walmart? What are her job duties relating to falls and the prevention of falls? Did she perform those duties properly?

Sonya Brumbelow (Customer Service Manager), same questions,

Melissa Lagoo (Associate), same questions.

Kelley Flint (Assistnat Manager), same questions.

Dustin Ingram (Subway Employee), not a Walmart employee, correct? How was he identified as a witness?

Have you provided any other statements, written or recorded?

Is there anything that we haven't talked about relevant to this fall?

---

Visual the area? Did you talk to anyone? Did you ask her how she fell?

No hazard.
