* MSJ


PLAINTIFFS' BRIEF IN RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT MICHAEL JESPERSEN'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

COME NOW the above plaintiffs and file their Brief in Response to Defendant Michael Jespersen's Motion for Summary Judgment, showing the following"

Facts

This case arises from a fatal collision in which the driver defendant, Keira Jones, failed to yield while making a left turn. The present motion is a motion for summary judgment by her stepfather, Michael Jespersen.

In February of 2021, Keira Jones lived with her mother, Jean Jespersen, in Fulton County, Georgia. (Deposition of Kiera Jones ["Jones Depo."], transcript filed contemporaneously herewith, at 10:21-11:24, 43:12-44:02, 88:08-10.) Michael Jespersen, her stepfather, also lived with them at that address. (Id.; Deposition of Michael Jespersen ["M. Jespersen Depo."], transcript filed June 6, 2023, at 07:05-08:01, 13:19-23.) She lived with her mother and stepfather primarily and would only occasionally spend time with her natural father. (Jones Depo. at 54:20-55:02; Deposition of Jean Jespersen ["J. Jespersen Depo."], transcript file June 6, 2023, at 54:07-24.) She was 17 at the time of the collision that resulted in the present civil action. (Jones Depo. at 62:23-24.)

On the day of the collision, Jones had stopped en route and immediately prior to the collision to purchase rice for the family's dinner. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 34:20-35:01.) When the collision occured, Jones was driving a 2019 Jeep Latitude belonging to her mother. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 14:19-25. 15:11-15.) Ms. Jespersen purchased the vehicle for her daughter's use. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 15:03-05.) Jones had been driving for a little over a year and a half at the time of the collision. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 16:01-03.)

Jones was a covered driver under an insurance policy in which Ms. Jespersen was the named insured. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 16:05-24.) Jones was permitted to use the vehicle for travel to work, school, gym, and on family errands. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 21:16-23:03.) An inexperienced driver, Jones received a ticket for speeding in a school zone just a few days prior to the collision, but neither her mother nor her stepfather placed any additional restrictions on her ability to drive. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 23:04-25:08.) 

Michael Jespersen owns a business vehicle, which is separately insured, with the insurance written off as a business expense. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 14:04-14, 14:22-15:07.) He is listed as an additional driver on the insurance covering the vehicle that Jones was driving in the collision. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 15:08-11.) Mr. Jespersen did not specifically contribute funds towards the purchase of Jones' vehicle. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 15:15-17.) However, he did, for example, provide homeowner's insurance for the household. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 16:07-09.) He testified that he did not supervise Jones' use of the vehicle but, when asked whether he could have told her not the use the vehicle, his answer was "I don't know." (M. Jespersen Depo. at 17:12-17.)[fn][Plaintiff attempted further investigation of the household finances on the question of how separate those finances in fact were, but the Court issued a protective order to prevent the discovery.]

ARGUMENT AND CITATION OF AUTHORITY

The present motion is a motion for summary judgment with respect to Michael Jespersen's involvement in this case as a family purpose and negligent entrustment defendant. 

The test for whether a defendant may be held liable for negligent entrustment or under the family purpose doctrine is not whether they held record title to the vehicle but instead, whether they had authority and control over the use of the vehicle. Marshall v. Whaley, 238 Ga. App. 776 (Ga. Ct. App. 1999); Selph v. Brown Ford Company, 181 Ga. App. 547 (Ga. Ct. App. 1987).

Here, it is undisputed that Mr. Jespersen lived with Jones, was her stepfather, and had finances that were not entirely separate from the household. Jones was on an excursion that was at least in part for a family purpose, purchasing ingredients for dinner. His response when directly questioned whether he had authority to control Jones' use of the vehicle was not a simple denial but "I don't know." Indeed, it defies credulity that Mr. Jespersen, who she identifies as her stepfather, had no authority over Jones' use of the vehicle. Given these facts, the issue of his liability for the collision remains in the province of the jury, and the motion should be denied.

Movant also argues that, even assuming Mr. Jespersen had control of the vehicle, the facts do not support a claim of negligent entrustment. However, she was a young driver with a school zone speeding incident near in time to the collision, and the movant provides no authority why the question of his negligence in allowing Jones to continue her use of a family vehicle should be taken from the province of the jury.

CONCLUSION

For the reasons set forth above, Plaintiffs respectfully request this Court to deny Defendant Michael Jespersen's Motion for Summary Judgment. Given the facts of the case, the questions of whether Mr. Jespersen had authority and control over the vehicle and whether he negligently entrusted it to Ms. Jones are matters of dispute best left to the determination of a jury.

There are material facts at issue regarding Mr. Jespersen's potential liability under the family purpose doctrine and for negligent entrustment. His financial intertwinement with the household, the fact that the vehicle was used for family purposes, and his ambiguous authority over the vehicle all suggest issue of fact that are properly for a jury. Furthermore, Ms. Jones' inexperience and recent traffic violation suggest that permitting her unrestricted use of the vehicle was negligent. Summary judgment is not appropriate in this case.

PLAINTIFFS' RESPONSE TO STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS

1.
This lawsuit arises from an automobile accident that occurred on February 9, 2021, at the
intersection of Bethany Bend and Cogburn Road in Fulton County, Georgia. See Complaint.
RESPONSE: Admitted.

2. At the time of the accident, Defendant Keira Jones (“Jones”) is alleged to have been operating a white 2019 Jeep Latitude. See Complaint.
RESPONSE: Admitted.

3. A collision occurred between the vehicles driven by Plaintiff Lynn Mercner Hyde (“Hyde”) and Jones. See Complaint.
RESPONSE: Admitted.

4. Decedent Patricia Mercner McMullen was a passenger in the vehicle being driving by
Hyde. See Complaint.
RESPONSE: Admitted.

5. Defendant Michael Jespersen was not present for, or involved in any way with, the subject accident. See Deposition of Michael Jespersen, p. 16-17; See also Complaint.
RESPONSE: Admitted.

6. Defendant Michael Jespersen has never had any ownership interest in or control of the 2019 Jeep Latitude that was involved in the subject accident. See Deposition of Jean Jespersen, p. 60, line 5. See also Deposition of Michael Jespersen, p. 17, lines 12-14.
RESPONSE: Denied. See generally Plaintiffs' brief on the issue of "control," which is a legal conclusion. Plaintiffs admit that Mr. Jespersen was did not have title to the vehicle.

7. Defendant Jean Jespersen owned the 2019 Jeep Latitude involved in the subject accident.
See Deposition of Jean Jespersen, p. 14, lines 15-18.
RESPONSE: Admitted.

PLAINTIFFS STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS SHOWING GENUINE ISSUES EXIST FOR TRIAL

1. In February of 2021, Keira Jones lived with her mother, Jean Jespersen, in Fulton County, Georgia. (Deposition of Kiera Jones ["Jones Depo."], transcript filed contemporaneously herewith, at 10:21-11:24, 43:12-44:02, 88:08-10.)

2. Michael Jespersen, her stepfather, also lived with them at that address. (Id.; Deposition of Michael Jespersen ["M. Jespersen Depo."], transcript filed June 6, 2023, at 07:05-08:01, 13:19-23.)

3. Jones lived with her mother and stepfather primarily and would only occasionally spend time with her natural father. (Jones Depo. at 54:20-55:02; Deposition of Jean Jespersen ["J. Jespersen Depo."], transcript file June 6, 2023, at 54:07-24.)

4. Jones was 17 at the time of the collision that resulted in the present civil action. (Jones Depo. at 62:23-24.)

5. On the day of the collision, Jones had stopped en route and immediately prior to the collision to purchase rice for the family's dinner. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 34:20-35:01.)

6. When the collision occured, Jones was driving a 2019 Jeep Latitude belonging to her mother. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 14:19-25. 15:11-15.)

7. Ms. Jespersen purchased the vehicle for her daughter's use. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 15:03-05.)

8. Jones had been driving for a little over a year and a half at the time of the collision. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 16:01-03.)

9. Jones was a covered driver under an insurance policy in which Ms. Jespersen was the named insured. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 16:05-24.)

10. Jones was permitted to use the vehicle for travel to work, school, gym, and on family errands. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 21:16-23:03.)

11. An inexperienced driver, Jones received a ticket for speeding in a school zone just a few days prior to the collision, but neither her mother nor her stepfather placed any additional restrictions on her ability to drive. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 23:04-25:08.) 

12. Michael Jespersen owns a business vehicle, which is separately insured, with the insurance written off as a business expense. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 14:04-14, 14:22-15:07.)

13. Mr. Jespersen is listed as an additional driver on the insurance covering the vehicle that Jones was driving in the collision. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 15:08-11.)

14. Mr. Jespersen did not specifically contribute funds towards the purchase of Jones' vehicle. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 15:15-17.)

15. Mr. Jespersen did provide homeowner's insurance for the household. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 16:07-09.)

16. Mr. Jespersen testified that he did not supervise Jones' use of the vehicle but, when asked whether he could have told her not the use the vehicle, his answer was "I don't know." (M. Jespersen Depo. at 17:12-17.)

{Also file Jones transcript with notice of filing}


* discovery

MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY

COME NOW the above Plaintiffs and file their Motion to Compel Discovery, showing the following:

Facts and Procedural Posture

Plaintiffs filed their complaint in this action on January 28, 2022. The case arises from a traffic collision that Plaintiff's allege was caused by the negligence of Defendant Keira Jones. The collision resulted in a death, and Ms. Jones was criminally charged. She filed a motion seeking to stay this action pending the criminal matter, which the Court denied. Several depositions have been conducted in the case.

The other defendants in this action are Jean Jespersen and Michael Jespersen. Jean Jespersen is Ms. Jones' mother and was the owner of the vehicle involved in the collision. (Deposition of Jean Jespersen ["J. Jespersen Depo."], extracts attached as Exhibit A, at 7, 14, 60.) Michael Jespersen lives with them. (Id.) Ms. Jespersen insured the vehicle; Ms. Jones was a covered driver on the vehicle. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 16-17.) The vehicle was provided to Ms. Jones, a high school student at the time, for her use in driving to school, work, and home, and for family errands. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 21-23.) At the time of the collision, Ms. Jones was travelling home from school and had stopped to pick up groceries for the family. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 33-35.) Ms. Jespersen testified that Mr. Jespersen had no involvement in purchasing the vehicle. (J. Jespersen Depo. at 54-55.)

Michael Jespersen is Keira Jones' stepfather. (Deposition of Michael Jespersen ["M. Jespersen Depo."], extracts attached as Exhibit B, at 13.) He maintains a separate insurance policy on a vehicle that belongs to a business that he owns. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 13-15.) He maintains that, although he is on the policy as an additional driver, he has never driven the vehicle in question and contributed no funds towards its purchase. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 15.) He contends that he and Mrs. Jespersen maintain separate finances. (M. Jespersen Depo. at 15.) He states that he had no involvement in supervising Keira Jones' use of the vehicle, and when asked whether he could have told her not to use it he responded "I don't know." (M. Jespersen Depo. at 17.)

Some time after these depositions, Plaintiffs propounded certain discovery intended to identify accounts of the Jespersen parties so that they might obtain account information by non-party requests for production; said defendants responded by way of objection. (Responses to Plaintiffs' Second Interrogatories, attached as Exhibit C and D, respectively. In subsequent good faith discussions, counsel for the Jespersens offered to provide and did provide certain heavily redacted records from accounts belonging to Ms. Jespersen showing her payments on the car note and an insurance account, and also records showing that Ms. Jespersen made payments for gas. However, Plaintiffs do not find this to be sufficient. Plaintiffs also note that they offered to enter into a protective order to address any privacy concerns the Jespersen's might have, but they were not agreeable to this alternative compromise.

Certification

The undersigned certified that the parties have attempted in good faith to resolve this discovery matter without involving the Court, and were unable to do so.

Argument and Citations of Authority

Pursuant to OCGA § 9-11-37(a)(2)-(3), this Court is authorized to enter an order to compel discovery responses upon an entire failure to answer or an incomplete or evasive answer to interrogatories. Defendants' answers are, at the very least, incomplete.

The claim against the Jespersen's is, alternatively, negligent entrustment or vicarious liability pursuant to the family purpose doctrine. Plaintiffs anticipate a motion for summary judgment on this issue. With respect to the family purpose doctrine (or other agency doctrines that might similarly apply), liability is not limited to title ownership, but extends, rather, to parties with an ""an interest in or control over the automobile." Hicks v. Newman, 283 Ga. App. 352, 353, 641 S.E.2d 589, 590 (2007).

Here, Ms. Jespersen is plainly the title owner of the vehicle and controlled Ms. Jones' use of the vehicle; she is without question an appropriate family purpose defendant. With respect to Mr. Jespersen, however, the relationship to both the vehicle and Ms. Jones is less clear. He insists that he did not contribute to the purchase, use, or maintenance of the vehicle in any way. However, he was a member of Ms. Jones' immediate household and her stepfather. Although he contends that the couple maintained separate finances, Plaintiffs should be entitled to pursue this question further in discovery, both on the immediately relevant question of the couple's finances relating to the vehicle, and on the more general question of their credibility. While the undersigned appreciates opposing counsel's attempt to resolve this matter by providing redacted records showing a pattern of specific payments by Ms. Jespersen, this is simply insufficient to definitively establish that Mr. Jespersen's had no involvement in this aspect of the household finances.

The propounded discovery is in the scope of discovery in that it is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of evidence that will be admissible on the anticipated dispositive motion and potentially at trial. OCGA § 9-11-26(b)(1). It is not advanced for purpose of annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or any other improper purpose, and any concerns that the Jespersen's may have regarding confidentiality will be adequately addressed by an appropriate form of protective order allowing them to designate documents obtained from financial institutions as confidential.

WHEREFORE, Plaintiffs respectfully prays that the Court enter an order to compel the requested interrogatory responses, that it award Plaintiffs their fees and costs of the present motion, and that it grant such other and further relief as it deems proper and just.
